Hello, everyone.
You have probably heard of machine
learning before, enough to grab your
attention and bring you to this class.
However, you might be wondering
what machine learning is.
We will talk about that
in this lecture and
discuss how we can see machine learning
in action in our day-to-day life.
After this video you will be able to
explain what machine learning is.
And list three applications of machine
learning encountered in everyday life.
Since this course is about machine
learning, lets define what that means.
We hear this term a lot these
days used in many contexts.
So it's good to start out with a solid
definition of what machine learning means.
Machine learning is the field of study
that focuses on computer systems that can
learn from data.
That is the system's often called
models can learn to perform a specific
task by analyzing lots of examples for
a particular problem.
For example, a machine learning
model can learn to recognize
an image of a cat by being shown lots and
lots of images of cats.
This notion of learning from data
means that a machine learning
model can learn a specific task
without being explicitly programmed.
In other words, the machine learning
model is not given the step
by step instructions on how to
recognize the image of a cat.
Instead, the model learns
what features are important
in determining whether it picture contains
a cat from the data that has analyzed.
Because the model learns to
perform this task from data
it's good to know that the amount and
quality of data available for
building the model are important factors
in how well the model learns the task.
Because machine learning
models can learn from data
that can be used to discover hidden
patterns and trends in the data.
These patterns and trends lead to
valuable insights into the data.
Thus the use of machine learning allows
for data driven decisions to be made for
a particular problem.
So to summarize, the field of machine
learning focuses on the study and
construction of computer systems
that can learn from data
without being explicitly programmed.
Machine learning algorithms and
techniques are used to build models,
to discover hidden patterns and
trends in the data allowing for
data-driven decisions to be made.
You may have heard that machine learning
is an inter-disciplinary field.
This is very true.
Machine learning combines concepts and
methods from many disciplines, including
math, statistics, computer science,
artificial intelligence, and optimization.
In applying machine learning to a problem,
domain knowledge is essential
to the success of end results.
By domain knowledge we mean
an understanding of the application or
business domain.
Knowledge about the application,
the data related to the application, and
how the outcomes will be used are crucial
to driving the process of building
the machine learning model.
So domain knowledge is also an integral
part of a machine learning solution.
Machine learning has been used in many
different learning application, many of
which you'll probably encounter in your
daily life, perhaps without realizing it.
One application of machine learning that
you likely used this past weekend, or
even just today,
is credit card fraud detection.
Every time you use your credit card,
the current purchase is analyzed
against your history of credit card
transactions to determine if the current
purchase is a legitimate transaction or
a potentially fraudulent one.
If the purchase is very different
from your past purchases, such as for
a big ticket item in a category that
you had never shown an interest in or
when the point of sales location
is from another country,
then it will be flagged
as a suspicious activity.
In that case,
the transaction may be denied.
Or you may get a call from your
credit card company to confirm that
the purchase was indeed made by you.
This is a very common use of machine
learning that is encountered in
everyday life.
Another example application of machine
learning encountered in daily life is
handwritten digit recognition.
When you deposit a hand-written check into
an ATM, a machine learning process is used
to read the numbers written on the check
to determine the amount of the deposit.
Handwritten digits are trickier
to decipher than typed digits
due to the many variations
in people's handwriting.
A machine learning system can sift through
the different variations to find similar
patterns to distinguish a one from a nine,
for example.
Recommendations in what sites is
another example application of
machine learning that most people
have experienced first hand.
After you buy an item on a website you
will often get a list of related items.
Often this will be displayed
as customers who bought this
item also bought these items,
or you may also like.
These related items have been associated
with the item you purchased by
a machine learning model, and
are now being shown to you since
you may also be interested in them.
This is a common application of
machine learning used often in
sales and marketing.
Here are some other examples of where
machine learning has been used.
Like targeted ads on mobile devices.
Sentiment analysis of social media data,
climate monitoring to detect seasonal
patterns, crime pattern detection, and
a healthiness analysis of drugs
among many other applications.
As you can see from this short list,
machine learning has been used in
various applications including science,
medicine, retail, law enforcement,
education and many others.
Let's take a few minutes to discuss the
different terms which refer to this field.
The term we are using for this course is
machine learning, but you may have heard
other terms such as data mining,
predictive analytics and data slangs.
So what is the difference
between these different terms?
As we have discussed, machine learning
has its roots since statistics,
artificial intelligence, and
computer science among other fields.
Machine learning encompasses
the algorithms and
techniques used to learn from data.
The term data mining became popular
around the time that the use
databases became common place.
So data mining was used to refer to
activities related to finding patterns in
databases and data warehouses.
There are some practical data management
aspects to data mining related to
accessing data from databases.
But the process of finding
patterns in data is similar, and
can use the same algorithms and
techniques as machine learning.
Predictive analytics refers to analyzing
data in order to predict future outcomes.
This term is usually used in the business
context to describe activities such as
sales forecasting or predicting
the purchasing behavior of a customer.
But again the techniques used to make
these predictions are the same techniques
from machine learning.
Data science is a new term that is
used to describe processing and
analyzing data to extract meaning.
Again machine learning techniques
can also be used here.
Because the term data science became
popular at the same time that big
data began appearing, data science usually
refers to extracting meaning from big data
and so includes approaches for collecting,
storing and managing big data.
These terms evolved at different times and
may have encompassed
different sets of activities.
But there have always been more
similarities than differences between
them.
Now they are often used
interchangeably and
have come to mean
essentially the same thing.
The process of extracting valuable insight
from data, the core algorithms and
techniques for doing this do not
change with different terms.
To summarize, in this lecture we've
discussed what machine learning is and
how it is being used.
Machine learning models learn from data to
perform a task without being explicitly
programmed.
They are used to discover patterns and
trends in the data.
And a lab for data driven decisions to
be made for the problems being studied.
We also discuss in this lecture examples
of how machine learning is being used.
We see how the example applications
that machine learning can be applied
to many different areas.